Why are you applying for Financial Aid? (150 words minimum required)

I am not able to afford the course on Data Structures and Algorithms. I would like to learn Data Structures and Algorithms because i want a job. I honestly believe that i can do wonders with this course. The knowledge on Data Structures and Algorithms will surely help me in my interviews. Unfortunately, my financial condition does not permit me to purchase this course but i have a hunger for knowledge. This course will help me compete with the best professionals out there. I am very optimistic about this course and hope i can do justice. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to afford this course, i would be very grateful if you can provide me a financial aid to this course since i have a lot of interest in Data Structures and Algorithms.I believe this course will give me the perfect push i need to start my career. I am giving lots of interviews but unfortunately all the companies ask for something more that i was never taught in my college curriculum. I am striving to meet my day to day needs. Hence, it will not be possible for me to afford this course.


How will taking this course help you achieve your career goals? (150 words minimum required)

I am graduate software engineer in india where every year 1 million engineers graduate every year. Most of these engineers are not employable and sadly i am one of them. I have many dreams and aspirations. I want to work in a big mnc as a software engineer and i am ready to work hard for it but i do not have the finance for it. I cannot afford the materials and resources. I want to contribute to india's economy and pay taxes. But for that i need a job. Therefore,i believe this course will help me get  a job. My dreams and aspirations go beyond my own imagination. I have to do a lot for my family and i have a lot of liabilities. I need to get a job that pays well so i can support my family's needs. The only way i can do that is by improving my existing skill set. Learning Data Structures and Algorithms can surely help me in that and since in india there is a huge demand of engineers who are good in Data Structures and Algorithms and i hope after this course i will get a good job.

If you answered no, please help us understand why.

I have already taken a loan for my graduate degree. Since i dont have a job even after graduation,i am unable to pay the existing loans. My parents medical bills are also very expensive. I have many liabilities and i cannot pay a low interest loan to coursera  until my present condition improves